{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This Tsay_Kim_2022_Data_README.txt file was generated on 2022-04-08 by Jonathan Tsay. \
\
\
GENERAL INFORMATION\
\
1. Title of Dataset: Data from: Dissociable use-dependent learning processes for volitional goal-directed reaching.\
\
2. Author Information\
	Corresponding Investigator 1\
		Name: Dr Jonathan Tsay\
		Institution: UC Berkeley\
		Email: xiaotsay2015@berkeley.edu\
\
	Corresponding Investigator 2\
		Name: Prof Hyosub Kim\
		Institution: University of Delaware\
\
	Co-investigator 1\
		Name: Arohi Saxena\
		Institution: UC Berkeley\
	\
	Co-investigator 2\
		Name: Dr Darius Parvin\
		Institution: UC Berkeley \
\
	Co-investigator 3\
		Name: Prof Timothy Verstynen\
		Institution: Carnegie Mellon University\
\
	Co-investigator 4\
		Name: Prof Rich Ivry\
		Institution: UC Berkeley\
\
\
3. Date of data collection: 2016-2018\
\
4. Geographic location of data collection: Berkeley, California\
\
5. Funding sources that supported the collection of the data: \
	Foundation for Physical Therapy Research\
	NIH NINDS\
\
6. Recommended citation for this dataset: Tsay*, Kim* et al. (2022), Data from: Dissociable use-dependent learning in volitional reaching, Dryad, Dataset\
\
\
DATA & FILE OVERVIEW\
\
1. Description of dataset\
\
These data were generated to investigate dissociable components in use-dependent learning in volitional reaching. \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Recent experiments that impose strict constraints on planning time have revealed two sources of use-dependent biases, one arising from dynamic changes occurring during motor planning and another reflecting a stable shift in motor execution. Here, we used a distributional analysis to examine the contribution of these biases in reaching. To create the conditions for UDL, the target appeared at a designated \'93frequent\'94 location on most trials, and at one of six \'93rare\'94 locations on other trials (Exp 1, N = 10). Strikingly, the heading angles were bimodally distributed, with peaks at both frequent and rare target locations. Despite having no constraints on planning time, participants exhibited a robust bias towards the frequent target when movements were self-initiated quickly, the signature of a planning bias; notably, the peak near the rare target was shifted in the frequently practiced direction, the signature of an execution bias. These dissociable components were replicated in a classic dataset in use-dependent learning by Verstynen and Sabes (N = 8). Furthermore, these execution biases were not only replicated in a delayed response task but were also insensitive to reward (Exp 2, N = 32). Taken together, these results extend our understanding of how volitional movements are influenced by recent experience.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
2. File List: \
	File 1 Name: UD_E1.csv\
	File 1 Description: Experiment 1 data. \
\
	File 2 Name: UD_E2.csv\
	File 2 Description: Experiment 2 data. \
\
	File 3 Name: VerstynenSabes2011.csv\
	File 3 Description: Verstynen and Sabes (2011) data\
\
	File 4 Name: UD_WithTraj.csv\
	File 4 Description: Experiment 1 trajectory data. \
\
	\
METHODOLOGICAL INFORMATION\
\
See Tsay, Kim et al for details. \
\
DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: UD_E1.csv\
\
1. Number of variables: 21\
\
2. Number of cases/rows: 8601\
\
3. Variable List: \
	SN: subject number.\
	TN: trial number\
	block: different blocks in the experiment (1 = veridical feedback; 2 - 10 = use-dependent learning blocks). \
	trainTgt: training target location (top right quadrant: 60; top left quadrant: 150). \
	hand_theta: hand angle at target radius\
	hand_theta_maxv: hand angle at maximum velocity\
	hand_theta_maxradv: hand angle at max radial velocity\
	hand_theta_100: hand angle 100 ms after movement initiation\
	hand_theta_40/Hand: hand angle 40 ms after movement initiation\
	ti: target angle. \
	fbi: cursor feedback (1 = cursor feedback provided; 0 = cursor feedback not provided).\
	MT: movement time\
	RT: reaction time\
	ST: search time (i.e., time between end of trial to finding the start location) \
	radvelmax: maximum radial velocity\
	Distance_raw: angular distance from training target (between 0-360)\
	Distance: angular distance from training target (between 0-180). \
	Handb: baseline subtracted hand angle at 40 ms after movement.\
	RTb: baseline subtracted RTs.\
	Hand_IB: inward bias.\
	CN: cycle number. \
\
DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: UD_E2.csv\
\
1. Number of variables: 16\
\
2. Number of cases/rows: 30209\
\
3. Variable List: \
	SN: subject number.\
	TN: trial number\
	group: group assignment (R = reward group; N = no reward group)\
	block: different blocks in the experiment (1 = veridical feedback; 2 - 8 = use-dependent learning blocks). \
	trainTgt: training target location (top right quadrant: 60; top left quadrant: 150). \
	hand_theta: hand angle at target radius\
	hand_theta_maxv: hand angle at maximum velocity\
	hand_theta_maxradv: hand angle at max radial velocity\
	hand_theta_100: hand angle 100 ms after movement initiation\
	hand_theta_40: hand angle 40 ms after movement initiation\
	ti: target angle. \
	fbi: cursor feedback (1 = cursor feedback provided; 0 = cursor feedback not provided).\
	MT: movement time\
	RT: reaction time\
	ST: search time (i.e., time between end of trial to finding the start location) \
	radvelmax: maximum radial velocity\
	\
\
DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: VerstynenSabes2011.csv\
\
1. Number of variables: 4\
\
2. Number of cases/rows: 673\
\
3. Variable List: \
	SN = subject number\
	Distance = distance from training target\
	RT = reaction time\
	Hand_IB = inward bias\
\
DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: UD_WithTraj.csv\
\
1. Number of variables: 11\
\
2. Number of cases/rows: 6791\
\
3. Variable List: \
	SN = subject number\
	TN = trial number\
	trainTgt: training target location (top right quadrant: 60; top left quadrant: 150). \
	ti = target location.\
	fbi = veridical feedback provided (0 = no; 1 = yes). \
	hx\'85 = hand position on x axis (# = sampling timepoints).\
	hy\'85 = hand position on y axis (# = sampling timepoints).\
	absvel\'85 = absolute velocity (# = sampling timepoints).\
	absacc\'85 = absolute acceleration (# = sampling timepoints).\
	hdist\'85 = hand distance (# = sampling timepoints).\
	radvel\'85 = radial velocity (# = sampling timepoints).\
\
	\
	\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}